In this lesson, we will take an in-depth look
at where tasks within pipelines run.
In the previous lesson,
you learned that both build and release pipelines
are made up of one or more tasks.
These tasks can be grouped in one or more jobs.
This means that technically a pipeline has one or more jobs
and a job has one or more tasks.
Please note that jobs used to be called phases
in the earlier versions of the product.
Now these tasks do not run within an Azure DevOps project,
or organization itself.
They are actually run on what are called agents.
Agents are run times often on a virtual machine,
or any container,
that are responsible for actually executing the tasks
that you specified.
This is a master slave model where all the work
for all your build and release pipeline definitions
is spread over all these agents.
These agents do not stand on their own,
but are grouped in what are called agent pools.
An agent pool is nothing more than a grouping with a name
and a list of agents in it.
Every agent is always in precisely one agent pool,
and agents in a pool can be temporarily taken
offline for maintenance,
which agent pool is used for a task
is determined in two folds.
First, you can select an agent pool
from which an agent should be obtained,
for every job in your pipeline.
This ensures that when a single agent is offline,
and the pool has more than one agent,
your job can still be executed.
The other mechanism that determines which agent is used
is that of demands and capabilities.
Every task that you can use in a pipeline
specifies one or more demands that it has.
A demand is a key value pair.
And can for example be, MS Build equals 15.0,
this means that the task can only run on an agent
that has a corresponding capability
that specifies MS Build equals 15.0.
To determine which agent to use,
all demands of all the tasks in a job are grouped.
And the first defendable agent out of the pool
that meets those demand's issued.
You should know that agent pools are created
at the level of the Azure DevOps organization,
from here on they are, or are not proficient
to individual projects.
Finally, there are two types of agent pools,
hosted and self hosted.
Hosted pools are managed for you by Microsoft.
Self hosted pools, you create and manage yourself.
For this course, and most likely most of your work
that was automatically included,
fully managed host pools are sufficient.
Now that we have gone over
to necessary theory for pipelines,
let's take a look at some labs,
starting with creating a build from mini board.


